---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 1: More Exercises"
---

## Chapter 1 - Syntax Basics

### Exercise 1: Fill in the Blanks

The program below should take a number of cans of food and calculate their total weight. It should declare a `count` variable with the number of cans, and a `unitWeight` variable with the amount (in kilograms) that each can weighs. It should then multiply `count` by `unitWeight`, and assign the result to a new `totalWeight` variable. Finally, it should print the number of cans and their total weight.

Fill in the blanks in the program so that it will run and produce the specified output. Note that `count` will have a type of `int`, but `unitWeight` will have a type of `float64`, so you'll need to do a conversion before you can multiply the two together.

{% highlight go %}
_______ main

______ "fmt"

____ main() {
    ___ count int = 20
    __________ := 0.4
    totalWeight := _______(count) * unitWeight
    fmt.Println(count, "cans weigh", totalWeight, "kilograms")
}
{% endhighlight %}

Output:

``` text
20 cans weigh 8 kilograms
```

When you're ready, have a look at [the solution](/solutions/ch01_01.html).

### Exercise 2: Code Rework

Several of the variable names used in this example break Go naming conventions. The code is also somewhat longer than it needs to be. See if you can modify so that it's shorter and follows conventions better, but still produces the same output.

{% highlight go %}
package main

import (
	"fmt"
)

func main() {
	var pebbleweight float64 = 0.1
	var rockweight float64 = 1.2
	var boulderweight float64 = 502.4
	var total_weight float64 = pebbleweight + rockweight + boulderweight
	fmt.Println(total_weight)
}
{% endhighlight %}

Output:

``` text
503.7
```

When you're ready, have a look at [the solution](/solutions/ch01_02.html).
