---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 2: More Exercises"
---

## Chapter 2 - Conditionals and Loops

### Exercise 1: Calling Methods

The `strings` package has a `Builder` type that is used to build a long text string out of multiple shorter strings. A `strings.Builder` value has a variety of different methods you can call, but this exercise is going to focus on these three:

* The `WriteRune` method accepts a rune as an argument and adds that rune onto the end of the string being built.
* The `WriteString` method works just like `WriteRune`, except that it accepts a string as an argument.
* The `String` method takes no arguments. Its return value is the accumulated string.

Complete the code sample below. The sample contains `YOUR CODE HERE` comments in the places you should add code, with a description of what your code should do.

{% highlight go %}
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"strings"
)

func main() {
	// The "builder" variable holds a "strings.Builder"
	// value. We're not assigning a value to "builder",
	// but that's okay; you can call methods on the
	// zero value for the "strings.Builder" type.
	var builder strings.Builder
	
	// YOUR CODE HERE: Call the "WriteRune" method on
	// "builder" 3 times, once with the rune 'a', once
	// with the rune 'b', and again with 'c'.
	
	// YOUR CODE HERE: Call the "WriteString" method on
	// "builder" once, with the string "defg".
	
	// YOUR CODE HERE: Call the "String" method on
	// "builder", and pass the return value to
	// "fmt.Println".
	
}
{% endhighlight %}

Output:

``` text
abcdefg
```

When you're ready, have a look at [the solution](/solutions/ch02_01.html).

### Exercise 2: Coming Soon!
