---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 5: More Exercises"
---

## Chapter 5 - Arrays and Blocks

### Exercise 1: Converting a String to an Array and back

This string is supposed to contain a list of fruit, separated by commas. But there are some items in there that shouldn't be:

{% highlight ruby %}
fruit_string = "boulder, apple, banana, peach, cow"
{% endhighlight %}

Write a script that does the following:

* Use the `split` method with an argument of `", "` to split the string into an array.
* Use the `pop` method to discard the last array element.
* Use the `shift` method to discard the first array element.
* Use the `join` method with an argument of `", "` to join the array back into a string, and print the result.

You should get the following output:

{% highlight text %}
apple, banana, peach
{% endhighlight %}

When you're ready, have a look at [the solution](/solutions/ch05_01.html).

### Exercise 2: Yielding to a block

Write a method named `with_these_numbers` so that the following code will work:

{% highlight ruby %}
with_these_numbers(1, 4) do |first, second|
  puts first + second # Output: 5
end

with_these_numbers(3, 6) do |first, second|
  puts first * second # Output: 18
end

with_these_numbers(12, 3) do |first, second|
  puts first / second # Output: 4
end
{% endhighlight %}

Some hints:

* Your method will need to accept two parameters.
* Your finished method body will probably be a single line of code.
* You'll need to use the `yield` keyword within the method body, to yield to the block.
* You'll need to pass the two method parameters as arguments to `yield`, so that they're passed on to the block.

When you're ready, have a look at [the solution](/solutions/ch05_02.html).

### Exercise 3: IRB session

Launch `irb` from your terminal, and try the following expressions:

{% highlight ruby %}
> numbers = [3, 29, 5, 12, 18]
> numbers.each { |number| puts number * number }
> numbers.each { |number| puts number.odd? }
> numbers.each { |number| puts "$" * number }
> strings = ["I", "ma", "a", "ybuR", "retsam"]
> strings.each { |string| puts string.reverse }
> strings.each { |string| puts string.length }
{% endhighlight %}

After you try them out, you can see [an explanation of the results](/solutions/ch05_03.html).
