---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 8: More Exercises"
---

## Chapter 8 - Structs

### Exercise 1: Defined Types and Structs

Let's create a struct type named `rectangle`, that represents rectangular areas. It should have `length` and `width` fields, both of type `float64`.

Also create a `rectangleInfo` function that accepts a `rectangle` as a parameter. `rectangleInfo` should print `"Length:"` followed by the rectangle's length, then `"Width:"` followed by the rectangle's width.

Finally, in your `main` function, create a new `rectangle` value, and set its `length` and `width` fields. Then pass the `rectangle` to `rectangleInfo` to display its field values.

{% highlight go %}
package main

import "fmt"

// YOUR CODE HERE: Declare a "rectangle" struct type.

// YOUR CODE HERE: Define a rectangleInfo function.

func main() {
	// YOUR CODE HERE: Create a new rectangle, and set its
	// length and width fields. Pass it to rectangleInfo.
}
{% endhighlight %}

Sample output:

``` text
Length: 4.2
Width: 2.3
```

When you're ready, have a look at [our solution](/solutions/ch08_01.html).

### Exercise 2: Modifying Structs from Functions

All squares are rectangles, but not all rectangles are squares... Let's define a `makeSquare` function that takes a `rectangle` and "cuts it down" so that its longer sides are equal to its shorter sides.

* If the `rectangle`'s `length` is greater than its `width`, set its `length` equal to its `width`.
* Otherwise, set the `width` equal to the `length`.

`makeSquare` won't return a value; it should modify the `rectangle` it receives (meaning it will need to accept a pointer to a `rectangle` and modify the value at that pointer).

In `main`, create a couple different `rectangle` values, one where the `length` is greater and one where the `width` is greater, and try converting them to squares using `makeSquare`.

Here's [our solution](/solutions/ch08_02.html).
