---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 9: More Exercises"
---

## Chapter 9 - Mixins

### Exercise 1: Inheritance abuse

We have `Drill` and `ElectricCar` classes that need `power_level` and `power_level=` attribute accessor methods, a `charge` method, and a `rev_motor` method. We also have a `Phone` class that only needs the `power_level`, `power_level=`, and `charge` methods.

Someone has created a class with all of these methods, and made it the superclass of `Drill`, `ElectricCar`, *and* `Phone`. All three classes now have all the methods they need, but `Phone` also has a `rev_motor` method, and maybe it shouldn't.

{% highlight ruby %}
class MotorizedBatteryPoweredThing
  attr_accessor :power_level

  def initialize
    self.power_level = 0
  end

  def charge
    self.power_level += 1
  end

  def rev_motor
    puts "Revving motor!"
  end
end

class Drill < MotorizedBatteryPoweredThing
end

class ElectricCar < MotorizedBatteryPoweredThing
end

class Phone < MotorizedBatteryPoweredThing
end

drill = Drill.new
drill.charge
puts drill.power_level

car = ElectricCar.new
car.charge
car.rev_motor

phone = Phone.new
phone.charge
# Maybe a Phone shouldn't have this method...
phone.rev_motor
{% endhighlight %}

Here's the output for the above code...

{% highlight text %}
1
Revving motor!
Revving motor!
{% endhighlight %}

See if you can create a `Motorized` module with a `rev_motor` method, and a `BatteryPowered` module with `power_level`, `power_level=`, and `charge` methods. Remember to avoid using an `initialize` method in a module; you'll probably need to use the `||=` operator to set an initial value for the power level.

Then, mix those modules into the `Drill`, `ElectricCar`, and `Phone` classes, as appropriate. The `Drill` and `ElectricCar` classes should have `power_level`, `power_level=`, `charge`, and `rev_motor` methods. The `Phone` class should have all of those methods *except* the `rev_motor` method.

When you're ready, have a look at [the solution](/solutions/ch09_01.html).
