---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 10: More Exercises"
---

## Chapter 10 - Comparable and Enumerable

### Exercise 1: Comparing grades

We need a Ruby class to represent student letter grades from "A" through "F". If you're not familiar with the system, grades consist of the letters "A", "B", "C", "D", and "F", with "A" being the best, and "F" being the worst.

The class will need `letter` and `letter=` accessor methods for the letter grade. The `letter=` method should validate the letter being assigned, and raise an exception if it's not "A", "B", "C", "D", or "F". It should also include an `initialize` method, so that we can pass a letter to `Grade.new` and have it assigned to the `letter` attribute, like this:

{% highlight ruby %}
a_grade = Grade.new("A")
{% endhighlight %}

We also need to be able to compare grades with the `<`, `>`, and `==` operators. An "A" grade should be considered "greater than" a "C" grade, an "F" grade should be "less than" a "D" grade, etc. So this code:

{% highlight ruby %}
a_grade = Grade.new("A")
b_grade = Grade.new("B")
c_grade = Grade.new("C")
d_grade = Grade.new("D")
f_grade = Grade.new("F")

puts "a_grade > c_grade: #{a_grade > c_grade}"
puts "f_grade < d_grade: #{f_grade < d_grade}"
puts "b_grade > a_grade: #{b_grade > a_grade}"
puts "a_grade == a_grade: #{a_grade == a_grade}"
{% endhighlight %}

Should output:

{% highlight text %}
a_grade > c_grade: true
f_grade < d_grade: true
b_grade > a_grade: false
a_grade == a_grade: true
{% endhighlight %}

Create a `Grade` class that mixes in the `Comparable` module, and implements the `<=>` method, so that all these operations are supported.

**Hint:** Ruby's `String` class also mixes in `Comparable`, so you can compare strings based on alphabetical order with the `<`, `>`, and `==` operators. So `"A" < "F"` would return `true`, and `"A" > "F"` would return `false`. Of course, since the *grade* "F" is actually *less than* the grade "A", you'll need to reverse result of the comparison.

When you're ready, have a look at [our solution](/solutions/ch10_01.html).
