---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 11: More Exercises"
---

## Chapter 11 - Interfaces

### Exercise 1: Interfaces

Here we have `Cuboid` and `Sphere` types, both of which have `Volume` and `SurfaceArea` methods. We also have a `PrintInfo` function that accepts a `Cuboid`, and calls `Volume` and `SurfaceArea` on it so it can print that info.

In the `main` function we pass a `Cuboid` to `PrintInfo`, which compiles fine. But then we try to pass a `Sphere` to `PrintInfo` as well, which results in a compile error. `PrintInfo` is only set up to accept `Cuboid` values, even though `Sphere` values have identical methods.

Let's get the `PrintInfo` function to accept both `Cuboid` and `Sphere` values. Define a `Solid` interface consisting of `Volume` and `SurfaceArea` methods. Then modify `PrintInfo` to accept a parameter with a `Solid` interface type instead of `Cuboid`.

{% highlight go %}
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"math"
)

type Cuboid struct {
	width  float64
	length float64
	height float64
}

func (c Cuboid) Volume() float64 {
	return c.length * c.width * c.height
}

func (c Cuboid) SurfaceArea() float64 {
	area := 2 * c.length * c.width
	area += 2 * c.length * c.height
	area += 2 * c.height * c.width
	return area
}

type Sphere struct {
	radius float64
}

func (s Sphere) Volume() float64 {
	return (4.0 / 3.0) * math.Pi * math.Pow(s.radius, 3)
}

func (s Sphere) SurfaceArea() float64 {
	return 2 * math.Pi * math.Pow(s.radius, 2)
}

// YOUR CODE HERE: Define a Solid interface.

// YOUR CODE HERE: Revise PrintInfo to accept a parameter
// that satisfies the Solid interface.
func PrintInfo(c Cuboid) {
	fmt.Println(c)
	fmt.Printf("Volume: %0.3f\n", c.Volume())
	fmt.Printf("Surface Area: %0.3f\n", c.SurfaceArea())
}

func main() {
	c := Cuboid{length: 2.5, width: 5.0, height: 10.5}
	PrintInfo(c)
	s := Sphere{radius: 2.0}
	PrintInfo(s)
}
{% endhighlight %}

Compile Error:

``` text
./prog.go:47:11: cannot use s (type Sphere) as type Cuboid in argument to PrintInfo
```

When you're ready, have a look at [our solution](/solutions/ch11_01.html).

## Chapter 11 - Interfaces

### Exercise 2: Type Assertions

Here are updated `Fan` and `CoffeePot` types, both of which satisfy an `Appliance` interface. We've also added a `Use` method that accepts an `Appliance`. Currently, `Use` only calls the `TurnOn` method on the `Appliance`...

Update `Use` so that it calls `Oscillate` on the `Appliance` if (and only if) it's a `Fan`. `Use` should also call `Brew` on the `Appliance` if (and only if) it's a `CoffeePot`.

{% highlight go %}
package main

import "fmt"

type Appliance interface {
	TurnOn()
}

type Fan string

func (f Fan) TurnOn() {
	fmt.Println("Spinning")
}
func (f Fan) Oscillate() {
	fmt.Println("Rotating on base")
}

type CoffeePot string

func (c CoffeePot) TurnOn() {
	fmt.Println("Powering up")
}
func (c CoffeePot) Brew() {
	fmt.Println("Heating Up")
}

func Use(appliance Appliance) {
	fmt.Println(appliance)
	appliance.TurnOn()
	// YOUR CODE HERE: If the appliance is a
	// Fan, call its Oscillate method.
	// If the appliance is a CoffeePot, call
	// its Brew method.
}

func main() {
	Use(Fan("Windco Breeze"))
	Use(CoffeePot("LuxBrew"))
}
{% endhighlight %}

Desired Output:

``` text
Windco Breeze
Spinning
Rotating on base
LuxBrew
Powering up
Heating Up
```

Here's [our solution](/solutions/ch11_02.html).
