---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 3: Solutions"
---

## Chapter 3 - Functions

### Exercise 1: `fmt.Printf`

The program below should produce a table with student names, their scores on three tests, and the average of those scores.

Write a `scoreSummary` function that accepts a `string` parameter with the student name, followed by three `float64` parameters with the test scores. Calculate the average of the scores by adding them all together and dividing the result by three. Then call `fmt.Printf` to print a table row with the following columns:

* The student name string, with a width of 10 characters.
* The first test score, with a with of 8 characters, 2 of them decimal places.
* The second test score, with a with of 8 characters, 2 of them decimal places.
* The third test score, with a with of 8 characters, 2 of them decimal places.
* The average of the scores, with a with of 8 characters, 2 of them decimal places.

### Solution

{% highlight go %}
package main

import "fmt"

// Declare a scoreSummary function with four parameters.
// "name" has a type of "string". "score1", "score2",
// and "score3" all have a type of "float64".
func scoreSummary(name string, score1 float64, score2 float64, score3 float64) {
	// The parentheses ensure that the addition operations
	// take place before dividing.
	average := (score1 + score2 + score3) / 3.0
	// %s formats a string value.
	// %10s pads a string with spaces to a width of 10.
	// %f formats a floating-point value.
	// %8.2f pads a floating-point value with spaces to a
	// width of 8, ensuring that a minimum of two decimal
	// places are displayed.
	// Don't forget the newline character at the end!
	fmt.Printf("%10s | %8.2f | %8.2f | %8.2f | %8.2f\n",
		name, score1, score2, score3, average)
}

func main() {
	fmt.Printf("%10s | %8s | %8s | %8s | %8s\n",
		"Name", "Score 1", "Score 2", "Score 3", "Average")
	fmt.Println("------------------------------------------------------")
	scoreSummary("Jermaine", 95.4, 82.3, 74.6)
	scoreSummary("Jessie", 79.3, 99.1, 82.5)
	scoreSummary("Lamar", 82.2, 95.4, 77.6)
}
{% endhighlight %}

Output:

``` text
      Name |  Score 1 |  Score 2 |  Score 3 |  Average
------------------------------------------------------
  Jermaine |    95.40 |    82.30 |    74.60 |    84.10
    Jessie |    79.30 |    99.10 |    82.50 |    86.97
     Lamar |    82.20 |    95.40 |    77.60 |    85.07
```
