---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 6: Solutions"
---

## Chapter 6 - Slices

### Exercise 2: Appending to a Slice

The program below should ask the user to input several strings. When the user is done, it should output the strings the user entered, separated by commas. Comments within the code explain how it all works. The finished program will rely on the `strings.Join` function to join the strings together. You can [read documentation on `strings.Join` here](https://golang.org/pkg/strings/#Join).

Your task is to update the code in the `main` function to get it all working. Set up a variable with a slice of strings to hold the phrases the user enters. Add new phrases to the end of the slice. And call `strings.Join` to join the strings in the finished slice with commas.

### Solution

{% highlight go %}
package main

import (
	"bufio"
	"fmt"
	"log"
	"os"
	"strings"
)

// Here we use a package variable, something we haven't
// done much of. It's in scope within all functions in the
// main package. This allows us to set up a reader just once,
// at the start of the "main" function, and then keep
// re-using it for the life of the program.
var reader *bufio.Reader

// getString prompts the user to input a string. Returns
// an empty string and an error if there was a problem
// getting input, or the user's input and a nil error
// otherwise.
func getString(question string) (string, error) {
	// Display the question and prompt for the answer
	// on the same line.
	fmt.Print(question + ": ")
	input, err := reader.ReadString('\n')
	// If there was an error, just return it to the caller.
	if err != nil {
		return "", err
	}
	// Remove the newline from the end.
	input = strings.TrimSpace(input)
	// Return the input and a "nil" error.
	return input, nil
}

// askToContinue prompts the user if they want to continue.
// If they enter "y", "Y", or no input, it will return true.
// If they enter "n" or "N", it will return false.
func askToContinue() bool {
	// This uses a "for" loop without any condition, which
	// just loops forever (until the user enters an accepted
	// answer and we return).
	for {
		answer, err := getString("Continue? [Y/n]")
		// If there was an error, log it and exit.
		if err != nil {
			log.Fatal(err)
		}
		// If user entered "Y" or "N", convert it to lower-case.
		answer = strings.ToLower(answer)
		// If user entered "n", don't continue.
		if answer == "n" {
			return false
			// If user entered "y" or nothing, continue.
		} else if answer == "y" || answer == "" {
			return true
		}
	}
}

func main() {
	// Store the Reader that getString will use in the
	// package variable. Note this is an assignment, not a
	// declaration!
	reader = bufio.NewReader(os.Stdin)
	// Process at least one phrase
	more := true
	// YOUR CODE HERE: Set up a slice to hold phrases the
	// user enters.
	var phrases []string
	// Loop until user chooses not to continue.
	for more == true {
		// Get the user's input.
		input, err := getString("String to add")
		// If there was an error, log it and exit.
		if err != nil {
			log.Fatal(err)
		}
		// YOUR CODE HERE: Add the user's input to the
		// slice.
		phrases = append(phrases, input)
		// Ask if the user wants to continue.
		more = askToContinue()
	}
	// YOUR CODE HERE: Call strings.Join with your slice
	// of strings, and the string ", " to join everything
	// together.
	fmt.Println(strings.Join(phrases, ", "))
}
{% endhighlight %}

Sample output:

``` text
String to add: cashews
Continue? [Y/n]: y
String to add: peanuts
Continue? [Y/n]: y
String to add: almonds
Continue? [Y/n]: n
cashews, peanuts, almonds
```
