---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 6: Solutions"
---

## Chapter 6 - Slices

### Exercise 3: Command-line Arguments

CSV is a common file format used to represent spreadsheet data in plain-text files. Go includes [an `encoding/csv` package](https://golang.org/pkg/encoding/csv/) that can read this format.

We're working on a program that accepts the name of a CSV file and a column number as command-line arguments. The program should go through the file and print only the requested column.

So, for example, if you save the following data as `gophers.csv`:

``` text
first_name,last_name,username
"Rob","Pike",rob
Ken,Thompson,ken
"Robert","Griesemer","gri"
```

And you run the program with `pcolumn gophers.csv 2`, it should output:

``` text
last_name
Pike
Thompson
Griesemer
```

We've written the `printColumn` function for you, which reads the specified file, prints the specified column, and returns a non-nil error value if it encounters any problems. We've also written a `check` function that will log an error an exit the program, unless the error is `nil`.

Your task is to update the `main` function to read the two command-line arguments, check that they're valid, and use them to make an appropriate call to `printColumn`. We've added comments to `main` that describe what you'll need to do.

### Solution

{% highlight go %}
// pcolumn prints the contents of a specified column from a
// CSV file. It takes two command-line arguments: the name
// of the file to read, and the column number to print.
// Example:
//
// pcolumn my.csv 2
package main

import (
	"encoding/csv"
	"fmt"
	"io"
	"log"
	"os"
	"strconv"
)

// printColumn reads the specified file and prints the
// specified column from each row. A non-nil return
// value indicates an error was encountered.
func printColumn(fileName string, column int) error {
	// Open the file for reading, and return any error.
	file, err := os.Open(fileName)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	// Ensure the file gets closed, even if there's an
	// error. We'll talk about "defer" in chapter 12.
	defer file.Close()
	// Set up a new csv.Reader that reads from the file.
	reader := csv.NewReader(file)
	// Loop until an error is encountered.
	for {
		// Read the next row.
		row, err := reader.Read()
		// Reaching the end of the file is an "error", but
		// it's an expected one, so just return.
		if err == io.EOF {
			return nil
		} else if err != nil {
			// Return any other type of error, because
			// those are NOT expected.
			return err
		}
		// If a column outside the row was requested,
		// return an error.
		if int(column) > len(row) {
			return fmt.Errorf("invalid column: %d", column)
		}
		// Otherwise, print the requested column.
		fmt.Println(row[column-1])
	}
}

// check logs an error and exits if the error is not nil.
func check(err error) {
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
}

func main() {
	// YOUR CODE HERE: Check the length of os.Args to see
	// if the user gave exactly two command-line arguments.
	// If not, log an error message and exit. Remember that
	// the first element of os.Args is always the name of
	// the program that was run.
	if len(os.Args) != 3 {
		log.Fatal("usage: column <file name> <column number>")
	}
	// The first argument will be the file name.
	fileName := os.Args[1]
	// Call strconv.ParseInt with the second command-line
	// argument, a base of 10, and a bitSize of 64.
	columnNumber, err := strconv.ParseInt(os.Args[2], 10, 64)
	// Pass the error value from parseInt to "check", so
	// any error will be reported.
	check(err)
	// Call printColumn with the file name and column
	// number. Note that ParseInt returns an int64 and
	// printColumn wants an int, so you'll need to cast
	// the type.
	err = printColumn(fileName, int(columnNumber))
	// Call "check" on the error value returned from
	// printColumn.
	check(err)
}
{% endhighlight %}
