---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 8: Solutions"
---

## Chapter 8 - Structs

### Exercise 2: Modifying Structs from Functions

All squares are rectangles, but not all rectangles are squares... Let's define a `makeSquare` function that takes a `rectangle` and "cuts it down" so that its longer sides are equal to its shorter sides.

* If the `rectangle`'s `length` is greater than its `width`, set its `length` equal to its `width`.
* Otherwise, set the `width` equal to the `length`.

`makeSquare` won't return a value; it should modify the `rectangle` it receives (meaning it will need to accept a pointer to a `rectangle` and modify the value at that pointer).

In `main`, create a couple different `rectangle` values, one where the `length` is greater and one where the `width` is greater, and try converting them to squares using `makeSquare`.

### Solution

{% highlight go %}
package main

import "fmt"

type rectangle struct {
	length float64
	width  float64
}

func rectangleInfo(r rectangle) {
	fmt.Println("Length:", r.length)
	fmt.Println("Width:", r.width)
}

// Accepts a pointer to a rectangle rather than a
// rectangle value, so that it can modify the original
// value at the pointer.
func makeSquare(r *rectangle) {
	// Remember that the dot operator works the same
	// with a pointer to a struct as it does with the
	// actual struct. You don't have to explicitly
	// write (*r).length or (*r).width.
	if r.length > r.width {
		r.length = r.width
	} else {
		r.width = r.length
	}
}

func main() {
	// Make a rectangle that's longer than it is wide.
	var r rectangle
	r.length = 4.2
	r.width = 2.3
	rectangleInfo(r)
	makeSquare(&r) // Pass a pointer to makeSquare.
	rectangleInfo(r)
	// Make a rectangle that's wider than it is long.
	var r2 rectangle
	r2.length = 10
	r2.width = 20
	rectangleInfo(r2)
	makeSquare(&r2) // Pass a pointer to makeSquare.
	rectangleInfo(r2)
}
{% endhighlight %}

Output:

``` text
Length: 4.2
Width: 2.3
Length: 2.3
Width: 2.3
Length: 10
Width: 20
Length: 10
Width: 10
```
