---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 9: More Exercises"
---

## Chapter 9 - Mixins

### Exercise 1: Inheritance abuse

We have `Drill` and `ElectricCar` classes that need `power_level` and `power_level=` attribute accessor methods, a `charge` method, and a `rev_motor` method. We also have a `Phone` class that only needs the `power_level`, `power_level=`, and `charge` methods.

See if you can create a `Motorized` module with a `rev_motor` method, and a `BatteryPowered` module with `power_level`, `power_level=`, and `charge` methods. Remember to avoid using an `initialize` method in a module; you'll probably need to use the `||=` operator to set an initial value for the power level.

Then, mix those modules into the `Drill`, `ElectricCar`, and `Phone` classes, as appropriate. The `Drill` and `ElectricCar` classes should have `power_level`, `power_level=`, `charge`, and `rev_motor` methods. The `Phone` class should have all of those methods *except* the `rev_motor` method.

{% highlight ruby %}
module Motorized
  def rev_motor
    puts "Revving motor!"
  end
end

module BatteryPowered
  attr_writer :power_level

  def power_level
    @power_level ||= 0
  end

  def charge
    self.power_level += 1
  end
end

class Drill
  include Motorized
  include BatteryPowered
end

class ElectricCar
  include Motorized
  include BatteryPowered
end

class Phone
  include BatteryPowered
end
{% endhighlight %}

Here's some code to try out the above classes:

{% highlight ruby %}
drill = Drill.new
drill.charge
puts drill.power_level

car = ElectricCar.new
car.charge
car.rev_motor

phone = Phone.new
phone.charge
phone.charge
puts phone.power_level
{% endhighlight %}

Here's the output: 

{% highlight text %}
1
Revving motor!
2
{% endhighlight %}
