---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 10: Solutions"
---

## Chapter 10 - Encapsulation and Embedding

### Exercise 1: Encapsulation

It shouldn't be possible, but users of the `rectangle` type are setting its `length` and `width` fields to negative values. We need to encapsulate these fields and add getter and setter methods to control access to them.

Update the `rectangle` type so that the program below will compile, run, and produce the output shown.

* Move the `rectangle` type and all its existing methods to a new `shapes` package.
* You'll need to rename the type and its existing methods so they're exported from the new package.
* Leave the struct fields _unexported_, however, so they can only be accessed through your getter and setter methods.
* The setter methods should return a single `error` value. If any value less than `0` is passed, return an error value indicating the value is invalid. Otherwise, return `nil`.

{% highlight go %}
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"log"
	"shapes"
)

// check logs an error and exits if the error is not nil.
func check(err error) {
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
}

func main() {
	var r shapes.Rectangle
	err := r.SetLength(4.2)
	check(err)
	fmt.Println("Length:", r.Length())
	// Set width to an invalid value.
	err = r.SetWidth(-2.3)
	check(err)
	fmt.Println("Width:", r.Width())
}
{% endhighlight %}

Output:

``` text
Length: 4.2
2019/05/31 18:46:50 invalid width: -2.300000
exit status 1
```

### Solution

`$GOPATH/src/shapes/rectangle.go`

{% highlight go %}
package shapes

import "fmt"

// Capitalize the type name, so it's exported.
type Rectangle struct {
	// DON'T capitalize the field names; we want these
	// unexported so they're only accessible through
	// getter and setter methods.
	length float64
	width  float64
}

// Length returns the value of the length field. Has a
// pointer receiver for consistency with the other methods.
func (r *Rectangle) Length() float64 {
	return r.length
}

// SetLength sets the length field. Must have a pointer
// receiver so it's not modifying a copy of the struct.
// Returns an error if an invalid value was passed,
// nil otherwise.
func (r *Rectangle) SetLength(length float64) error {
	if length < 0 {
		return fmt.Errorf("invalid length: %f", length)
	}
	r.length = length
	return nil
}

// Width returns the value of the width field. Has a
// pointer receiver for consistency with the other methods.
func (r *Rectangle) Width() float64 {
	return r.width
}

// SetWidth sets the width field. Must have a pointer
// receiver so it's not modifying a copy of the struct.
// Returns an error if an invalid value was passed,
// nil otherwise.
func (r *Rectangle) SetWidth(width float64) error {
	if width < 0 {
		return fmt.Errorf("invalid width: %f", width)
	}
	r.width = width
	return nil
}

// Capitalize the method name, so it's exported.
func (r *Rectangle) MakeSquare() {
	if r.length > r.width {
		r.length = r.width
	} else {
		r.width = r.length
	}
}

// Capitalize the method name, so it's exported.
func (r *Rectangle) Info() {
	fmt.Println("Length:", r.length)
	fmt.Println("Width:", r.width)
}
{% endhighlight %}
