---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 11: Solutions"
---

## Chapter 11 - Interfaces

### Exercise 1: Interfaces

Here we have `Cuboid` and `Sphere` types, both of which have `Volume` and `SurfaceArea` methods. We also have a `PrintInfo` function that accepts a `Cuboid`, and calls `Volume` and `SurfaceArea` on it so it can print that info.

In the `main` function we pass a `Cuboid` to `PrintInfo`, which compiles fine. But then we try to pass a `Sphere` to `PrintInfo` as well, which results in a compile error. `PrintInfo` is only set up to accept `Cuboid` values, even though `Sphere` values have identical methods.

Let's get the `PrintInfo` function to accept both `Cuboid` and `Sphere` values. Define a `Solid` interface consisting of `Volume` and `SurfaceArea` methods. Then modify `PrintInfo` to accept a parameter with a `Solid` interface type instead of `Cuboid`.

### Solution

{% highlight go %}
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"math"
)

type Cuboid struct {
	width  float64
	length float64
	height float64
}

func (c Cuboid) Volume() float64 {
	return c.length * c.width * c.height
}

func (c Cuboid) SurfaceArea() float64 {
	area := 2 * c.length * c.width
	area += 2 * c.length * c.height
	area += 2 * c.height * c.width
	return area
}

type Sphere struct {
	radius float64
}

func (s Sphere) Volume() float64 {
	return (4.0 / 3.0) * math.Pi * math.Pow(s.radius, 3)
}

func (s Sphere) SurfaceArea() float64 {
	return 2 * math.Pi * math.Pow(s.radius, 2)
}

// YOUR CODE HERE: Define a Solid interface.
type Solid interface {
	Volume() float64
	SurfaceArea() float64
}

// YOUR CODE HERE: Revise PrintInfo to accept a parameter
// that satisfies the Solid interface.
func PrintInfo(s Solid) {
	fmt.Println(s)
	fmt.Println("Volume:", s.Volume())
	fmt.Println("Surface Area:", s.SurfaceArea())
}

func main() {
	c := Cuboid{length: 2.5, width: 5.0, height: 10.5}
	PrintInfo(c)
	s := Sphere{radius: 2.0}
	PrintInfo(s)
}
{% endhighlight %}

Output:

``` text
{5 2.5 10.5}
Volume: 131.250
Surface Area: 182.500
{2}
Volume: 33.510
Surface Area: 50.265
```
