---
layout: exercises
title:  "Chapter 13: Solutions"
---

## Chapter 13 - Goroutines and Channels

### Exercise 1: Goroutines and Channels

Here's our program that runs the `a` and `b` functions in goroutines again. Previously, we used `time.Sleep(time.Second)` to keep the `main` goroutine from exiting until the other goroutines finished. But these functions don't take anywhere near a second to finish, meaning it takes longer than necessary for the program to complete.

Revise the `a` and `b` functions to accept a channel as a parameter. Each function should send a value to the channel when its work is complete. We just want to use the channel for synchronization, so the values sent don't really matter; we suggest `bool` values.

In `main`, you'll need to create the channel you're going to use. Call `a` in a new goroutine, passing the channel as an argument. Do the same for `b`. (You can pass a single channel to both functions.) Finally, read from the channel twice. Each read will cause the `main` goroutine to block, allowing the other two goroutines to complete before the program exits.

### Solution

{% highlight go %}
package main

import "fmt"

// Accept a channel as a parameter.
func a(done chan bool) {
	for i := 0; i < 50; i++ {
		fmt.Print("a")
	}
	// Write a value to the channel when done printing.
	done <- true
}

// Accept a channel as a parameter.
func b(done chan bool) {
	for i := 0; i < 50; i++ {
		fmt.Print("b")
	}
	// Write a value to the channel when done printing.
	done <- true
}

func main() {
	// Create the channel.
	done := make(chan bool)
	// Run each function as a goroutine, passing the
	// channel to each.
	go a(done)
	go b(done)
	// Read from the channel, which will block until the
	// first goroutine is done. (We don't know which
	// goroutine will finish first, and for this example,
	// it doesn't matter.) We'll just discard the value
	// we read.
	<-done
	// Block until the second goroutine is done.
	<-done
	fmt.Println("end main()")
}
{% endhighlight %}

Example Output:

``` text
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaabbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaend main()
```
